reference-manual: security: guide on the PKI API (#235)
foundriesio/docs: source/reference-manual/security/device-gateway.rst

Terminology
-----------

.. _Root-of-trust:

Root of trust - factory_ca.key / factory_ca.pem
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The PKI root of trust for your factory. You own the private key

> (EC prime256v1 by default). The corresponding x509 certificate is shared

Author: I am not sure about it, effectively this is about what libssl supports, I'll double-check it.

> (EC prime256v1 by default). The corresponding x509 certificate is shared

Reviewer: keep in mind there are two limitations. what's possible in libssl and what's currently supported by libaktualizr - https://github.com/advancedtelematic/aktualizr/blob/69589544742126da5efbccf5ade0158266556ffd/include/libaktualizr/types.h#L46 I

> (EC prime256v1 by default). The corresponding x509 certificate is shared

Author: I think you are mixing TUF/Uptane keys with mTLS/HTTPS keys.

> (EC prime256v1 by default). The corresponding x509 certificate is shared

Reviewer: true. we currently use the same key type for both. i guess technically it could be anything golang supports then.

A user can extract any of the aforementioned fields by utilizing ``jq`` utility. For example:

::

    cat factory_certs.json | jq -r .create_ca

Once the fioctl command receives a response it makes use of the above mentioned scripts included in a response.
Specifically:

1. Invokes the ``create_ca`` script to generate Root CA key (``factory_ca.key``) and Root CA certificate (``factory_ca.pem``);
2. Signs the ``tls-csr`` by invoking the ``sign_tls_csr`` script, the resultant certificate is stored in ``tls-crt``;
3. Signs the ``ca-csr`` by invoking the ``sign_ca_csr`` script, the resultant certificate is stored in ``online-crt``;
4. Creates a local/offline Device CA by using ``create_device_ca``, the resultant private key and certificate are stored in ``local-ca.key`` and ``local-ca.pem`` correspondingly;

After that, the fioctl command uploads the generated artifacts to the backend by issuing a PATCH request to the endpoint.
Specifically, the following files are uploaded:

1. ``tls-crt`` - the result of ``tls-csr`` signing;
2. ``online-crt`` and ``local-ca.pem`` bundled together into the ``ca-crt`` field of the PATCH request;

> 3. ``factory_ca.pem`` - root CA certificate created by running ``create_ca`` transferred via ``root-crt`` fields of the PATCH request.

Author: makes sense

You can view the configured certificates with
``fioctl keys ca show --pretty``.

The Factory PKI is interwoven with Device Manufacturing Process and Device Registration,
you can find out more details on this topic in this guide :ref:`ref-factory-registration-ref`

Under the hood
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> ``fioctl keys ca create`` command does a few things under the hood.

Reviewer 2: Here I would remove the 'command does a few things under the hood' line because it is already under the 'Under the hood' part.

Author: removed.

::

    cat factory_certs.json | jq -r .create_ca

Once the fioctl command receives a response it makes use of the above mentioned scripts included in a response.
Specifically:

1. Invokes the ``create_ca`` script to generate Root CA key (``factory_ca.key``) and Root CA certificate (``factory_ca.pem``);
2. Signs the ``tls-csr`` by invoking the ``sign_tls_csr`` script, the resultant certificate is stored in ``tls-crt``;
3. Signs the ``ca-csr`` by invoking the ``sign_ca_csr`` script, the resultant certificate is stored in ``online-crt``;
4. Creates a local/offline Device CA by using ``create_device_ca``, the resultant private key and certificate are stored in ``local-ca.key`` and ``local-ca.pem`` correspondingly;

After that, the fioctl command uploads the generated artifacts to the backend by issuing a PATCH request to the endpoint.
Specifically, the following files are uploaded:

1. ``tls-crt`` - the result of ``tls-csr`` signing;
2. ``online-crt`` and ``local-ca.pem`` bundled together into the ``ca-crt`` field of the PATCH request;
3. ``factory_ca.pem`` - root CA certificate created by running ``create_ca`` transferred via ``root-crt`` fields of the PATCH request.

> It should be pointed out that the Factory PKI can be set once.

Reviewer: maybe the factory root of trust instead of "PKI"?

Author: done

Thus, the given command ``fioctl keys ca create`` performs work only at the first run, subsequent command calls will fail.
Device CA bundle (``ca-crt``) can be updated many times, specifically a user may add/remove local/offline CA certs to/from the bundle,
``fioctl keys ca update`` command is intended for it.

Device key and certificate
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Once the PKI is setup, your Factory Device Gateway is ready to communicate via mTLS with Factory devices.
Obviously, the devices must have a private key and a x509 certificate to setup mTLS session with Device Gateway
as well as the Root CA certificate to verify Device Gateway certificate during mTLS handshake.

As explained above the fioctl command generates two types of Device CA, online and local/offline CAs.
Both of these CAs can be used to sign Device CSR.

Online Device certificate
*************************

> In the case of online CA, a private key is owned by the backend hence
> only backend can signed Device CSR. The utility called ``lmp-device-register`` can be used for this purpose,
> and this is the default device registration mechanism. The tool generates a device private key,
> creates corresponding device CSR and makes a request to the backend to signe it with the online CA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case of online CA, a private key is owned by the backend. Hence,
only the backend can sign a Device CSR with the online CA. The utility called ``lmp-device-register`` can be used for this purpose
and is the default device registration mechanism. The tool generates a device private key,
creates corresponding device CSR and makes a request to the backend to sign it with the online CA.
```

Author: done
